docs: devcontainer-cli (#125)
Elektrobit/ebcl_template: docs/intro/dev_container.md

# The dev container-cli

> The dev-container cli takes devcontainer.json like the one in this worksapce and create and configure a dev container from it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The dev-container cli uses a devcontainer.json, like the one in this workspace, and creates and configures a dev container based on it.
```

> This is handy for using the SDK without VS code UI.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This is handy for using the SDK without VS Code UI.
```

## Installation

- docker installation

Ensure to have node version greater 16 and not above 18

```bash
sudo apt-get update
sudo apt-get install -y ca-certificates curl gnupg
sudo mkdir -p /etc/apt/keyrings
curl -fsSL https://deb.nodesource.com/gpgkey/nodesource-repo.gpg.key | sudo gpg --dearmor -o /etc/apt/keyrings/nodesource.gpg
export NODE_MAJOR=18

> echo "deb [signed-by=/etc/apt/keyrings/nodesource.gpg] https://deb.nodesource.com/node_$NODE_MAJOR.x nodistro main" | sudo tee /etc/apt/sources.list.d/nodesource.list

Reviewer: ```suggestion
arch=$(dpkg --print-architecture)
echo "deb [arch=$arch signed-by=/etc/apt/keyrings/nodesource.gpg] https://deb.nodesource.com/node_$NODE_MAJOR.x nodistro main" | sudo tee /etc/apt/sources.list.d/nodesource.list
```

This prevents the following warning from being printed when runnint apt update:

```
N: Skipping acquisition of configured file 'main/binary-i386/Packages', as repository 'https://deb.nodesource.com/node_18.x nodistro InRelease' doesn't support architecture 'i386'
```

sudo apt-get update

> sudo apt-get install nodejs -y

Reviewer: ```suggestion
sudo apt-get install nodejs
```

I would drop the -y here. This should be used only in scripting and then a user should know to use it

```

Then install devcontainers-cli itself

```bash
sudo apt install npm
sudo npm install -g @devcontainers/cli
```

## Setup dev container

- Building: `devcontainer up --workspace-folder ./ebcl_template/`
- Execute a command inside `devcontainer exec --workspace-folder ./ebcl_template/ <command>`

## Build an image

> Building an image can be done quite similar to the usual workflow in vsCode

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Building an image can be done quite similar to the usual workflow in VS Code.
```
Use the name as it is used by MS

```bash
devcontainer exec --workspace-folder ./ebcl_template/ bash
(venv) ebcl@25b055e27967:/workspace$ cd images/amd64/appdev/qemu/ebcl_1.x_crinit

> (venv) ebcl@25b055e27967:/workspace/images/amd64/appdev/qemu/ebcl_1.x_crinit$ task

Reviewer: ```suggestion
(venv) ebcl@25b055e27967:/workspace/images/amd64/appdev/qemu/ebcl_1.x_crinit$ task build
```
Otherwise this runs qemu which doesn't really fit the description

```

## Build and deploy an application

> Building an application can be done as described as the alternative method in [here](https://elektrobit.github.io/ebcl_template/main_2.x/apps/index.html#build).

Reviewer: It should be possible to link to the md file here, like:
```suggestion
Building an application can be done as described as the alternative method in [here](../apps/index.md#build).
```

Author: I was targeting the deployed book, will this work?

Reviewer: Should work, take a look at SUMMARY.md

Author: You are right, done

> For deploying the build application the following steps can be used:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For deploying the built application the following steps can be used:
```

## Build an image

Building an image can be done quite similar to the usual workflow in VS Code.

```bash
devcontainer exec --workspace-folder ./ebcl_template/ bash
(venv) ebcl@25b055e27967:/workspace$ cd images/amd64/appdev/qemu/ebcl_1.x_crinit
(venv) ebcl@25b055e27967:/workspace/images/amd64/appdev/qemu/ebcl_1.x_crinit$ task build
```

## Build and deploy an application

Building an application can be done as described as the alternative method in [here](../apps/index.md#build).

For deploying the built application the following steps can be used:

1. Start Qemu in an additional terminal:

```
devcontainer exec --workspace-folder ./ebcl_template/ bash
(venv) ebcl@25b055e27967:/workspace$ cd images/amd64/appdev/qemu/ebcl_1.x_crinit
(venv) ebcl@25b055e27967:/workspace/images/amd64/appdev/qemu/ebcl_1.x_crinit$ task
```

2. Ensure the ssh conection from your original decontainer session

`TARGET=<preset> source /workspace/apps/common/deployment.targets && /workspace/apps/common/check_and_update_ssh_key.sh  --prefix "$SSH_PREFIX"  --port $SSH_PORT --user $SSH_USER --target $TARGET_IP`

3. Deploy the application from your original decontainer session

> `TARGET==<preset> source /workspace/apps/common/deployment.targets && $SSH_PREFIX rsync -rlptv -e "ssh -p $SSH_PORT" --exclude */include/* --exclude *.debug /workspace/results/apps/<application>/qemu-aarch64/build/install/ $SSH_USER@[$TARGET_IP]:/`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`TARGET=<preset> source /workspace/apps/common/deployment.targets && $SSH_PREFIX rsync -rlptv -e "ssh -p $SSH_PORT" --exclude */include/* --exclude *.debug /workspace/results/apps/<application>/qemu-aarch64/build/install/ $SSH_USER@[$TARGET_IP]:/`
```
